it's like going for a jog and when
you're you start huffing and puffing
your lungs are like oh [ __ ] we need to
get in shape that's literally what's
gonna happen in in their brain is
they're like struggling to keep up with
what you're saying
okay
so let's start with um so you don't want
to go home for the holidays so there
there are kind of like three or four
skills before we start off there are
three or four skills that you all need
to learn that are going to be really
important
the first is articulate instead of
attack okay so the first thing to
understand very important for the
narcissistic family member is that you
don't want to like as you state your
opinion it will be perceived as oh what
well maybe this will turn into
narcissistic family member
um so first like so tip number one is
articulate instead of attack
so if you don't like something about the
holidays like for example
you know let's say that like if if your
household is like mine
you know most of the women are
responsible for cooking and cleaning
while the men sit around and basically
do nothing
and so if you were to challenge that in
some way and kind of point that out
right
then chances are like someone will feel
attacked
and like if they feel attacked they're
gonna get defensive and if they feel
defensive and if they start to feel
guilty then the narcissistic behaviors
will pop up right because then they'll
like attack you in turn because they're
like how dare you make me feel
you know lazy and you make me feel like
called out you're calling me out for
being lazy and not contributing to the
holiday so screw you i'm on the attack
so the first thing that we need to do is
learn how to articulate
instead of attack okay
second thing
i know it's kind of rough don't expect
much
so understand that when it comes to
traditions and dynamics around the
holidays
i apologize but
one two hour stream is not going to give
you the magic bullet that will allow you
to become a superhuman go into the
holidays and transform things overnight
okay it definitely is going to help you
don't get me wrong but recognize that
altering families and especially
narcissistic personalities is not done
after a two-hour stream it's gonna like
take time so what we're gonna be doing
is establishing a foundation of
communication and boundary setting which
you will then build on over time and
then a year from now two years from now
you'll start to see like real change
within your whole family okay
next thing
is manage your own emotions
so
if you are trying to create change in
any kind of situation you need to be
calm cool and collected
so like you can't get emotionally
invested in what's going on because this
is the jedi mind trick
when you get emotionally activated the
narcissistic family member you're
playing their game and they're gonna win
they are master manipulators right so
the second you get emotional and the
second they pull out responses from you
that are like emotionally driven like
you've lost because they're gonna beat
you at that game that's why they are
what they are in the family right that's
like how they get there is because they
are they're diamond level players at
emotional manipulation
and so if they're emotionally
manipulative and you're emotional you've
lost that's the counter so what you need
to do is like manage your own emotions
because the more that you manage your
emotions
then they're not gonna have like
anything to attack right it's like
you're gonna have like you know you have
like emotion vulnerability like that
that's what they attack with so you just
have to be you have to manage your your
own emotions so how do you do that
we're gonna teach all a little bit of
meditation today we're going to actually
do it today so i'm going to share
scenarios with you that are going to
make you feel validated and then you'll
process some of those emotions and
hopefully you'll feel a little bit
better off you can also do something
like i think group coaching is fantastic
for this kind of thing where you can
join like one of our groups do some
group coaching talk about the holidays
[ __ ] about the holidays commiserate
with other people who are also bitching
about the holidays process your emotions
so that you can go into the the holidays
calm cool and collected okay so these
are our three skills articulate instead
of attack don't expect much change is
slow within families and manage your own
emotions
okay
and that's not i'm not really debating
you guys so you guys like we're talking
about narcissism okay it's going to be
the common thread here so we're going to
take narcissism and we're going to run
it through the other two and then we'll
sort of conclude with it
okay
so you don't want to go home for the
holidays so let's start with this
scenario what does this look like
i need a name chat what's a name
okay
nick
okay so me perfect so
hold on stop scroll okay
okay so we've got pepolini
okay so we're gonna have pepolini
so pepolini calls their parents
and says
dear parents of pepolini
i'm sorry but i don't want to come home
for the holidays and then the parents
say what
they say
but honey we miss you so much little
peppalini it's just without you or who's
going to be our pepolini like we need
our little peppalini it's such a
wonderful time and we miss you so much
and we love you so much
and and like it's it's a time for the
family to be together
we miss you darling please come home
you know we're just it's not the same
without you it won't be the same you
know they'll say all these kinds of
things right
and so like what are they actually
saying
they're talking about why the holidays
are good for them
we will miss you
it's tradition it's something that we
value
it's all about their perspective and
what they gained from the holidays
and so this is what how you respond okay
so this is like 101 you say okay so i'm
hearing that if i don't come home from
the holidays
you'll miss me it won't be the same and
you kind of like really value everyone
being together for the holidays because
that is important to you it'll hurt me
beautifully put oh it'll hurt
it'll hurt me therefore if you don't
come home for the holidays you are
damaging me
you are hurting me by not coming
right so if we really pay attention to
that
is there any
understanding or anywhere in like is
there room for pepolini in any of those
statements
are the parents even asking
why don't you want to come home
right
is that even like happening at all no
it's all about tradition
and you're just a possession very well
said
right it's all about like how you will
affect them it'll hurt you
so this is where you reflect back and
you can say oh dad i i get that you guys
miss me a lot i get that like you know
you really want me to be there
and um i would hope
i too enjoy being spending time with
family up to a point you know i can
definitely see the value so you want to
acknowledge i can see the value in
coming home for the holidays
i'm curious and this is where you sucker
punch him okay so get ready for this
this is where you say what's your
understanding of what my experience of
the holidays is like
so ask them don't tell them hey it sucks
for me because abc
it sucks for me because all you'll ever
ask me is when am i going to get married
that's all you ever ask
all you ever do is like talk about how
you're so disappointed and how much
potential i have and i've never lived up
to it i it you know like you don't you
don't because if you do that what is
that doing chat is that articulating or
attacking
it's attacking right so we're not gonna
do that we don't actually tell them
you know like what
we feel
okay so don't attack chat i know you
want to that's why you have to get your
emotions in check okay
no attacking
i know you want to i really i i know you
do but we don't want to do it get your
emotions in check don't attack
so instead of saying all those things
you're gonna ask hey what's your
understanding of like what it's like for
me when i come home for the holidays
and then the parents are gonna be
confused they're gonna be like what
because what you're
asking them to do is you're like asking
a question that requires them to use
empathy you're asking them put yourself
in my shoes you can say put yourself in
my shoes but no one ever actually does
that right that's not actually how you
engage the empathic circuits of the
brain what you actually do is you ask
them a question what's your
understanding of what my experience is
like
and then like they have to put
themselves in your shoes to answer it
and they'll say i don't know why don't
you tell me
and that's where you kind of take a step
back
and then you kind of once again
articulate instead of acknowledge i mean
instead of attack right and then you can
say oh i can see now it's making a lot
of sense
that
understanding my perspective is not
something that like
you it's not like you really understand
what my experience is like and you need
me to explain it to you i now understand
why it's like been hard for me to come
home for the holidays because i now get
that like it seems like you don't
actually understand what my experience
is like and that's also why we have
differing ideas of the holidays right
because you seem to think it's like
wonderful and fun and all these kinds of
things but i get it now
you actually don't understand what my
experience is like and that's why you're
confused why i don't want to come home
for the holidays it makes sense to me
and so that's like sort of an attack but
what you really want to do is articulate
that they don't understand what your
perspective is like
okay so it's kind of passive aggressive
yeah because [ __ ] them right
this is really hard to execute you're
damn right it is that's why we're
training you line by line okay and we're
gonna give you guys a lot of training
here
i'm with you
so you could say oh i i understand that
you don't know what it's like for me and
that makes sense to me like now i
understand why we have differing
opinions because you have this one
understanding of the holidays and it
seems like you're not really aware of
mine
okay so then they're gonna feel attacked
and they're like oh just tell us what
are we doing wrong so this is this is
pitfall number one
where they tell you tell us what we're
doing wrong and we will fix it they want
to jump right to the solution okay
because here's what's going to happen if
they if they ask you okay so let's see
chat let's see what your predictive what
your you know predictive capabilities
are if they say tell us what we're doing
wrong and we'll fix it
what happens if you tell them what
they're doing wrong what are they going
to say let's say that you guys always
just ask me when am i gonna get married
and when am i gonna live up to my
potential
what are they gonna say if you say that
oh beautiful that's correct
oh so good so good two or three things
okay so this is the problem the first is
they'll start arguing with you they're
like oh no like they'll deny they'll say
like oh i we don't do that like you're
crazy [ __ ]
why are you
thinking that that's not what we mean
it's not what we mean
don't you understand that's not what we
mean we say it for your benefit it's
because we love you we'll get denials
we'll get justifications we'll get
you're an idiot for not understanding
right
all of those that's bucket number one
that's a pretty big bucket
it's not what we mean
the next thing that they'll do or if you
guys are like i don't know if that's
lucky or unlucky the other thing is
empty promises someone said it like that
very good
okay
they'll be like oh
we won't do that
we'll do whatever you want little one
oh pepelini please come back we promise
we won't ask you about your marriage
and here's the thing they can promise it
in that moment but i want y'all to
understand this like their brain has not
transformed in that moment that's not
how behavioral change happens
like
in that moment they're not going to
remember their promise it's not about
remembering the promise it's about
rewiring their brain it's about like
because giving a promise does not teach
them empathy do you guys get that what
they need to do is have empathy for your
situation but it's not like you just
like make a promise and it's like your
brain is like boom we're just gonna
build this empathy circuit up over here
and it's gonna be easy done finished
right so they'll promise whatever they
need to to get you to come
and they'll say oh we promise we won't
do that
okay so either way pepoliti don't trust
them your parents are evil no your
parents are not evil remember the goal
of this is to develop healthy
relationships with your family that's
the goal of this okay but we have to
understand what's going on in order to
develop a healthy relationship with them
so
this is where remember you have to
manage your expectations okay don't
expect much and you can say so this is
where like if they say whatever they say
you can kind of articulate back so if
they're very resistant
you can just reflect back to them you're
saying okay so like what you're saying
is that you know my feelings and my
reaction to your situation is
it to the holidays is like a
misinterpretation of your intention
so because you don't mean to hurt my
feelings
there's really nothing wrong with what
y'all are doing am i hearing that
correctly
and they're gonna be like wait a minute
so this is the key thing right so if you
don't argue you just articulate to them
what they said just articulate it just
be like hey so you're saying like
basically you don't want to say like and
you don't want to get emotional because
if you get emotional you're going to say
something like you're basically telling
me to go [ __ ] myself right you don't
want to say that but you want to say
that you want to just articulate so what
i'm hearing is that the reason that i
don't enjoy the holidays is because i
don't understand your intention behind
the words that you say
is that fair to say
just ask them is that what you mean
or that are you saying that the reason i
don't enjoy the holidays is because i'm
confused about what y'all are saying
because you never say it
so if they use denial
if they use we love you
um even though i feel hurt you're set
you're basically telling me that since
it's coming from a place of love like
you're going to continue doing it or i'm
confused so you can just ask them to
play the tape through to the end and
this is where like once again there's
going to be like an empathic lurch in
their brain because if you're attacking
them they can get defensive right but if
you're like just asking them questions
and like asking them to confirm the
idiocy that comes out of their mouth
they're gonna get like kind of confused
and then like you'll see there's like a
calculation error it's gonna be like the
debugging process before you run the
script like comes up with an error and
it won't run properly and they'll kind
of get confused and the good news is
you're already winning at that point
because their empathic brain is like
struggling it's like going for a jog and
when you're you start huffing and
puffing your lungs are like oh [ __ ] we
need to get in shape that's literally
what's gonna happen in in their brain is
they're like struggling to keep up with
what you're saying because deep down
they know that you're laying a trap for
them right you're like they're like they
can tell because you're not
you're not folding they can tell that
like oh my god there's a trap in here
but they don't know how to dodge it
because the trap is like literally their
words and so they get like kind of
confused like oh crap
right you guys get that
and so
you can ask them to articulate and then
this is where you can
like pull like kind of a jiu jitsu move
so like they make flounder
and so this is where they'll also
default to the second one they'll be
like just tell us what you want just
tell us how to fix it once they get
confused and they don't know how to read
you anymore they'll just be like just
tell me what you want
just tell me whatever you want i'll do
it whatever whatever just tell me what
do you what do you want from me have you
guys heard that what do you want from me
what do you want from me
like what i want from you is
understanding well how do i get explain
to me how to understand tell me how to
understand right it's confusing for them
because you can't make them understand
they have to make the effort to
understand themselves
and so you can say okay so this is where
you've got an option if you're gonna go
home for the holidays
you can lay a specific boundary and i'd
start small
so you can say yeah so what would it
would help if you guys did not mention
when i'm getting married or what my
dating status is
like
what do you how do y'all feel about and
then ask them like so lay your boundary
and then ask them how do y'all feel
about that
can i come home for the holidays without
talking about dating at all
are you guys gonna do are y'all willing
to do that
and then this is where they say oh of
course we'll do it like we're totally
fine with that
and so then you'll kind of ask them okay
so like let's just be clear so you guys
are saying that you're not gonna mention
this
and if it gets mentioned so this is this
is the key part okay
so you've got to prep them so here's the
other thing okay so like here's a tip
for narcissistic family members if you
want to deal with like not just
narcissism but just generally speaking
family members
you got to treat them kind of like kids
in terms of like giving them warnings
right so like when i'm dealing with my
kids and it's like time to go in 15
minutes
if i if it's time to go and i walk over
i turn off the television or like i take
away the ipad the kids throw a fit
they're like ah
but if i tell them hey in 15 minutes
we're going to turn off the ipad and the
kids like yeah okay whatever
in 10 minutes we're going to turn off
the ipad it's like yeah yeah whatever
in five minutes we're going to turn off
the ipad they're like yeah whatever
and then when i actually take it away
they still like throw a little bit of a
hissy fit but they sort of get it
because they saw it coming you got to
give them a chance to see it coming you
got to let them see the reaction coming
so in terms of setting the limit about
don't talk about marriage what you do
is you say so just to be clear you guys
are agreeing to not talk about this
right
and then the parents are like yes and so
then this is you say okay so if it gets
talked about y'all will understand why
i'm not coming home for christmas
so just let them know there's going to
be a consequence to their behavior
let them see it don't spring it on them
after they screw up oh i'm sorry we
didn't know no because then you get back
to square one do you all get that like
if you spring the punishment
on them after they screw up which
they're gonna do
then it's like they're gonna be mad at
you again they're gonna be like oh give
us another chance like give us another
chance like oh we promise we won't do it
this time like we just made a mistake
like just not just this time like
right so you gotta let them know so
you're gonna say okay so just so we're
all on the same page
i'm gonna come home for the holidays you
guys are not gonna mention the marriage
stuff and if you do you'll totally
understand why i'm not coming home for
christmas right so then like we don't
need to have this discussion again
let them know what's coming down the
pipeline that's how you set a boundary
right you say like hey here's the
boundary
i'm gonna play this game with you but if
you cross it there are gonna be
consequences and you let them know what
the boundary and the consequences are
ahead of time does that is this is very
important how to set boundaries 101
right it's not a threat it's not even
it's just like this is law
right it's not it's a law of physics if
this gets talked about don't expect me
for christmas
and then when it gets talked about which
inevitably will don't once again don't
attack
don't articulate i mean you want to
articulate right so you can say hey i
thought we agreed not to talk about this
and if they like they're like oh yeah
we're sorry
and then don't say anything else
right and then like you can decide
afterward because now you've like now
that you've like set them up like
so now you've got a reason you can say
hey i'm just gonna like take a pass on
christmas
you know just like tell them like you
have to tell them there i wouldn't tell
them right then i would wait till
thanksgiving is over
and see if they continue to respect the
boundary if they do you can sort of be
like hey i know y'all like i appreciate
that you guys brought it up and i
brought it up with you and then you guys
like steered clear of it thank you very
much
um i know that like y'all care about me
and stuff like that so that's totally
fine
uh you know if you guys if like if we
can keep this up that actually made the
experience a lot more enjoyable for me
i'm happy to come home for christmas if
we can keep this up
and then if they did if they don't
continue to respect your boundary then
you could say yeah afterward you can be
like hey i sort of had fun but
you know i kind of like we discussed
something and we weren't going to talk
about like marriage and stuff like that
you guys kind of like didn't respect
that so i'm not going to be coming home
for christmas like we discussed
just let him know ahead of time
and just boom
right
does that make sense
so
um so just to kind of summarize a couple
of things
so the first thing is
if you don't want to go home for the
holidays
ask them to articulate
your perspective first ask them what do
you think my experience is like that's
going to be engaging their empathic
circuitry getting them to like think a
little bit about it right
don't attack them whatever they come up
with they may result in denial or like
whatever like just tell us whatever
they'll like try to like fast forward
the conversation at the end they're like
i don't know how to play this game
let's get to the game just tell me what
i need to say and i'll i'll say it and
then just come home because i want you
home to get my emotional needs met
because i'm your parent and i love you
right they're not coming from a bad
place hopefully let's assume not
so ask them to articulate your
perspective
whatever they do try to hypothesize
repeat it back to them especially if
they give you denial or like it's not
our fault and things like that and so
you can kind of like you can sort of
make it not really an attack but you're
just pointing out to them what they're
saying so you're saying oh it's not my
fault but i so since it's not your fault
because it's driven by love what i'm
hearing from you is that i can't really
expect that to change at all right
because you're never going to stop
loving me which i appreciate and this is
just how your love is going to manifest
so i basically have a choice between
like coming home and dealing with this
or not coming home and then not dealing
with it it seems like the choice that i
have to make is like the two are tied
together so if i don't want to hear that
the only solution i've got is to like
not come home for the holidays
so lay it out for them whatever they
tell you you're going to just jiu jitsu
at the aikido up in here okay whatever
they throw at you you're just gonna
throw right back at them in a
non-emotional non-confrontational way
hey let's just get on the same page
about what are the rules of the game
and as you pointed out to them they're
gonna panic they're gonna start
promising that's when you lay the
boundary you figure out what's my
boundary
if your boundary is not respected you
can give them feedback right then and
there but that's usually comes across as
emotional or you can give them feedback
afterward that can be far healthier so
once you've calmed down emotionally like
the next day be like hey you all asked
me a couple questions about marriage i
just wanted to understand is that
something that you're all going to
continue to do because i was under the
impression we talked about this and
you know you had sort of agreed not to
yeah but
but we just care so much and we're so
you're we're so worried and you're so
handsome and they're all these wonderful
and we know that but and we know and we
love you and but
yeah right and so then you're going to
articulate back and you can say okay
fine
i understand that it's going to be hard
for you understood
and then if you get up and leave if
you're like me
you broke you made a promise you broke
with that promise
then what's gonna happen in their mind
they're gonna think oh my god he is so
he's hurting so much on the inside he
needs love we don't have to respect him
because he's acting emotionally and like
a child you know he's like oh
like so they're not going to take you
seriously if you act emotionally so you
can say okay fine so you ride out the
rest of the holidays heaven knows that
you've written out so many so far and
then after it ends you just circle back
and say hey like
you know we talked about this i mention
it to you again and you all basically
said that like
because it's so important to you you're
gonna bring it up and you're not really
interested in like
what my perspective is so
if i don't come home for christmas now
you understand why
right so you can leave an if there if
you want to you don't have to like
punish them then and there you can just
say like okay i now understand that
anytime i come home like this
conversation is gonna be had and if i
try to tell y'all to not talk about it i
basically am going to get ignored which
is fine so then i just have to make the
decision about whether i want to like if
i really don't want to have the
conversation then i just won't come home
which is totally cool they're like oh no
no no we didn't mean it we promise we'll
change you'll be like okay i we had that
conversation last time though
easy so i'll just let me like stew on it
and i'll let you know whether i'm coming
home for christmas
okay
so if the boundary isn't respected you
can give feedback either in the moment
or later and the main thing is to let
them see the consequence coming
and like as long as you remain like
set in yourself manage your own emotions
don't expect too much lay a boundary let
them see the consequence coming
over time
so once
one person saying adults will never
change i completely disagree
so they will change and i've seen it
time and time and time again the problem
is that we are just not educated in how
to get adults to change right we're not
like we're just like operating like
think about how do you approach family
situations
like how like where is the wiki on
family situations
where is the walk through on family
situations
where is the class on like how to deal
with family situations
where is the class on like how to manage
your emotions
right so like
so i i don't blame you for believing
that adults will never change
because let's be honest the majority of
times that's true
and yet
just because you know no human has ever
flown doesn't mean that no human will
ever fly it just requires the right kind
of technology so what we're offering
y'all is an interpersonal technology
that if you learn how to use properly it
is our hope that you will start to
change the relationships in your life
and it's not your fault you're not
stupid or anything and it's kind of not
their fault because they weren't taught
either do you all get that
like they didn't
like the reason they can't answer the
question what is your understanding of
my experience is because their empathic
circuits haven't been developed
right does that make sense so like we
want to have compassion for them they're
not i mean we're kind of membing them a
little bit but that by the way is to
validate your emotions if you guys
haven't figured that out
right we don't actually think your
parents are bad like we're the goal of
this is to try to make things work
okay
as as
saying they didn't know better
absolutely
all right
so
that's if you don't want to go home for
the holidays
okay
what if they still feel attacked and get
defensive we'll get to that in a second
all right we'll get to that with the
narcissism
where do i buy this flying technology
it's right here on stream for the low
low price of zero dollars and zero cents
all it costs is two hours of your time
okay
so the second thing is how to challenge
tradition all right
so i'm going to give you all a scenario
and we'll sort of see like the
narcissism coming out you guys see what
i mean now like it's just that like i
want to i want to like give you guys
like good scenarios so that we can see
like the defenses and stuff start to
come out
okay
so
how to challenge tradition so this is
the tradition that i'm gonna use all
right
so like i don't know about y'all but in
my family generally speaking for the
holidays the women will cook and clean
which is like quite
a endeavor okay so it involves like
grocery shopping a day or two before
the preparation of cooking and the
marinating of things
and whatever like the day before
and then like you know you start cooking
at like
like 8 a.m in the morning and it's like
a marathon thing because we're gonna
like do a wonderful meal
and then the men in my family tend to
just hang out right so oftentimes there
is football involved or cricket or
whatever but there's just this very like
simple like dynamic of like
the women cooking clean and like the men
just kind of sit around
and and i i don't want to get into
i'm not trying to make this about like
gender or the patriarchy or like women
being oppressed or things like that like
it's not my place to kind of pass
judgment on that i mean i'm gonna i'm
gonna sort of pass judgment but not from
like a political way it's just like
that's not really like fair
so i think that some of this stuff if we
kind of think about the origins
you know i think this sort of made sense
when like gender roles were a little bit
more clear right so
like maybe 50 60 70 80 years ago 100
years ago
men had a pretty particular like role
which is that they left the house and
they like hunted or chopped wood or
worked and then women would sort of take
care of the home right this is like the
traditional like 100 year old sort of
gender role divide and even that at that
point i don't i don't know if women did
more
uh you know less work than women i'm
sure that someone out there more
educated than i am will be able to give
me an answer to that but
i think at that point it was about a
division of labor where like men worked
and women
manage the household
and so i think that even in a sense like
that tradition was probably
understandable or came from somewhere
because it evolved right so it like
evolved for a reason and chances are
that like the reason that it evolved
that way was because of that division of
labor so like if you know if if the man
was planning like a work event i would
imagine that they would do the heavy
lifting for that but maybe not
i don't want to get this into gender
dynamics but i do want to sort of
acknowledge that there are traditions
which may be unhealthy or unfair to some
people this is the one that i'm going to
use because it's the one that i
understand the best it's the one that i
grew up with and it's the one that i
think a lot of people can relate to
so that sort of used to work because
like women didn't used to have jobs
right but now like women have jobs so
the division of financial labor tends to
be like more even than it used to be
but our traditions right because their
traditions seem to be lagging behind
so if you were like in my household you
would see what i saw which is that you
know my dad was a doctor and he worked
more than my mom and my mom was a doctor
so they were both practicing physicians
my dad probably worked on average five
hours more per day than my mom did maybe
even more because he would oftentimes
like work saturdays as well so he may
have worked like 30 hours more per week
than my mom even though they were both
practicing physicians but what i sort of
noticed is that like on balance my mom
did more than 30 hours of like housework
per week
that includes like picking us up and
dropping us off and going grocery
shopping and like all that kind of stuff
so you know if you're in this kind of
situation how do you challenge this sort
of like dynamic
so this is where once again if you
criticize it
which may be fair so like if you get
like emotional about it you criticize it
you're like oh the patriarchy and like
women are oppressed like you can say
that and i think you've got a valid
argument but i don't think you're gonna
win any points in a family situation
like i don't think that people are gonna
walk away from that and be like
you know oh you're right like this
should change i think what's gonna
happen if you start like criticizing
them is they're gonna feel attacked when
they feel attacked they they get
defensive and when they get defensive
they're gonna call you a [ __ ]
right they're gonna that's what's gonna
happen
so i'm not saying that that's even that
is fair i'm not saying that your
criticisms aren't legit but what i'm
saying is like it's easier to catch more
flies than honey than it is with vinegar
like that's my style right
and that's what happens
so if you've got a traditional family
structure like that's how you're going
to be received and be judged
so here's the first thing so if you are
a dude and there is an unhealthy
tradition
you should like do what you think is
right so act in accordance to your
dharma
so like when i so this is something that
i do now right which i'm sure that once
again i'll give you guys an example but
so like i try to help out during
holidays because i remember so what
would happen in my household is like we
would have a big holiday and my brother
was older and i was younger and so
therefore for some reason i fell into
the women's camp and so my brother got
to chill but i got to like i had to like
cook and clean all day and i was like
what the f is this
like why like so somehow like
subconsciously my mom like put me in the
role of a daughter because she didn't
have a daughter she needs someone so
like i guess it's the younger kid is the
daughter
so i had to like cook and cleo i was
like this is bs like f this right my
brother helped out too and stuff like
that but
you know it just felt really unfair to
me so now so if if you're a dude and
there's an unhealthy tradition here's
how you challenge it so if you're the
man in this situation i would go and
help out in the kitchen and this is
going to create all kinds of problems
right so then like what's gonna happen
is like you're gonna start helping out
and then like the other men in your
family are gonna be like oh like stop
doing that hahaha that's woman's work
lol and we mean that as a joke
it's clearly not women's work because we
know that gender equality and all that
but
right so if you start helping out like
what's gonna happen like even if you
don't say anything here's the thing you
don't need to say anything you don't
need to be like this is unfair this is a
relic of the patriarchy and down with
whatever blah
then they're going to just write you off
as like some crazy political person
right instead just let your actions do
the talking you're not going to
criticize anyone you're not going to say
that anything that they're doing is
wrong
right you just act in accordance with
your dharma so you go and you help out
you go to the women you say hey what can
i do you want me to pick up this you
want me to do this you want me to do
this you want me to do this at some
point someone's going to excite comment
on it right and this is when once again
you want to articulate you don't want to
attack but you're going to attack
people are going to feel attacked
you're not going to expect much from
them you're going to manage your own
emotions and if if you're like me this
will happen well someone will start
making fun of you and they'll be like
what do you like are you doing women's
work
and so my response would be
you know thanksgiving is about gratitude
and like i really appreciate all the
work that they're doing so this is the
way that i show my gratitude
and then you just walk away and continue
helping in the kitchen and then people
are going to be like well [ __ ]
right
like how do they argue against that
so this is where like if you guys
wanna like don't tell people that
they're doing bad things
just articulate instead of attack hey
all you all [ __ ] should not be
sitting on the couch this is unfair
don't do that
right you just act in accordance with
your dharma you articulate why you're
doing it
and then even if they continue making
fun of you like because they they don't
know what to like people don't know how
to respond to that right like because
people don't say [ __ ] like that which is
exactly why you guys need to learn how
to say it
so like you just say like this is the
way that i show my gratitude
you're not saying hey
and they're like what you don't so this
is what's gonna happen like they're
gonna feel attacked right so they're
gonna come at you
and they're gonna be like look what you
don't think we're grateful and you're
like hey i never said that
i'm sure you show your gratitude in
whatever way is appropriate to you this
is just how i show mine
i'm not judging you you do you bro
right so like roll with that resistance
don't attack don't articulate say i
never said that
now if you want to go on the attack you
can be like how do you show your
gratitude [ __ ]
you ungrateful oh i raised you and
you're like cool i'm grateful for that
so they attack you and they're like oh i
raised you like i can't believe you're
so ungrateful and you're like bro that's
why i'm not sitting on on the couch and
[ __ ] watching football and i'm
cooking you a pie it's my way of showing
gratitude what are you getting mad at me
for
right
it's like you stay aligned with your
dharma
and you just like throw it back at them
and you're like if you think i'm like
why the [ __ ] am i making a pie for you
it's because i'm grateful
and then like they can't they'll
they
it's you're gonna you're gonna ko it's a
ko that's like the advantage of living
in accordance with your dharma
you guys get that
okay
excellent question what to do if you
were a woman moving on
so if you're a woman
and you're unhappy and you think this is
unfair
get people to articulate
right let them lay the trap themselves
so you talk to ideally another woman or
man like so you talk to your parents
let's say let's say you're the daughter
of the family so you talk to your
parents and say hey i'm thinking about
coming home for thanksgiving
help me understand what i should expect
get him to say it
what's gonna happen
like what should i expect
we're trying to plan
and then your mom will be like well
we're gonna start cooking like on
wednesday morning and we'll serve dinner
on thursday afternoon
and so then
so like just like so i'm coming with my
husband let's say
and so so what is he going to be doing
for
24 or 36 hours just
get them to articulate it they're gonna
be like he's gonna be hanging out with
with your dad
okay like what am i gonna be doing
you're gonna be in the kitchen [ __ ]
cooking and cleaning
and so then you can articulate it to
them so you can say okay so just so i
understand this mom and i are going to
be cooking and cleaning for about 36
hours
and then
my husband is going to be like just kind
of hanging out
and they're going to be relaxing
and so then this is where like your
parents are gonna be like
this is where the defense has come out
you all ready
it's tradition
oh beta it's tradition
it's okay
it's tradition
now sometimes like if you if you end up
doing well like
like
i've seen this happen before where like
the dad is sort of like oh wow like
that's actually insane so if you just
like talk to people without sort of
attacking them sometimes they'll realize
they'll be like yeah that's kind of
[ __ ] and so you know maybe like i've
seen this before where dads will be like
we'll just order out because it's not
really fair for you all to be cooking
and cleaning and then what'll happen
we'll get to this i don't know if we can
get to this today but then there's an
enabler
this is the flip side to the
narcissistic family member and this is
why we got to go through the scenarios
first there's the enabler where dad's
like we can just order out and who's
gonna screw you in that situation
huh
who's gonna screw you
you're making so much progress things
are even
mom
mom is gonna screw you oh no honey
we don't have to do that
it's our way of showing
love
right because then there's all kinds of
things that happens in mom's mind and
this isn't her fault because she's been
culturally conditioned
that on thanksgiving you don't order out
like what the
right
like that's the antithesis of
thanksgiving thanksgiving is about
showing your gratitude and love by
laboring away in the kitchen like what
kind of rejects grandma or mom
like orders pizza for thanksgiving like
that's a failure like we've been
societally conditioned to think that
women will be failures if they don't
cook for thanksgiving you all get that
and so mom's gonna sandbag you
she's gonna torpedo
because she's gonna feel bad so this is
where if you really wanna this is really
getting to the next level but you to
like deal with that guilt right so mom's
feeling guilty she's feeling like she's
letting you down
and so you got to be like okay so mom if
you really want to do that i know it's
kind of weird but
this is where you've got a couple of
different plays but one is you can just
a seed to that and say like you know
okay if you really want to cook like we
can do that if that's really important
to you and that's where like once again
you're acting in accordance with your
dharma because you're you're sort of
like you're taking one for the team
right you're doing it to help your mom
feel better but you know that dad's on
your side
and so maybe then you have a second
conversation with your husband or your
dad and say like hey like you know mom
is like the one who's like sacrificing
all this time for our benefit so like we
should all help out or let's do
something nice for her so that's another
thing that you can do like you can like
go out of your way to really make them
feel appreciated
right so you can do things that lets mom
sort of be a good woman in her mind
because that's the way that she's been
conditioned or even it's not
conditioning that's sort of like
actually kind of condescending she may
actually value that right like that may
be like what she views as her thought
about this is something that i want to
do for my family
so it's actually quite condescending for
us to assume that she's conditioned oh
she can't think by on her own she is a
woman she has been conditioned by the
patriarchal society like that's actually
really [ __ ] condescending now that i
think about it
right so maybe that's just how she does
her dharma
and so it's just about sort of having
that conversation
and you know like
you you could sort of see where like
where that conversation goes so maybe it
is ordering out
maybe it is like you know having a
conversation then with your husband or
dad about hey we're gonna chip in and
we're all going to help or
we're going to do something super
awesome for mom
like we're going to do something for mom
that like repays the karmic debt that
she is doing for us
okay
and if you're a spouse so this is the
third scenario we're going to talk about
this one is arguably the most
challenging
because you have a lot of power in the
other two the third the third one this
is the hardest
is if your in-laws have an unhealthy
tradition and you're the spouse of
someone else so this is like if you're
the wife
your husband's family has all these like
traditions that you think are unhealthy
or unfair
and you are like
you know it's like 1v5 kind of situation
because like your your spouse has grown
up with these traditions so they think
it's normal
like the in-laws are doing it like you
have to maintain some kind of like you
know relationship with your in-laws so
you don't want to be like one of these
like spouses who's like a [ __ ] to deal
with you know
um and i don't mean that from a gender
standpoint i mean just like just a
general word
and so like that's where you have to
have a conversation with your your
spouse about hey like what do you think
about these traditions right get them to
articulate like what am i what are you
signing me up for when we go to your
parents house for thanksgiving like what
are you signing me up for and what are
you signing yourself up for also you can
attack a little bit when it comes to
your spouse because they're your spouse
and it's like you know
no holds and or holes bart you know so
it's like it's your spouse
so go for it
so just have a have a conversation
and
you know like like just kind of get
people to articulate it
so
um that that's kind of okay i'm i'm
assuming that
that
you can uh you can have a conversation
with your spouse
okay so questions about challenging
traditions
okay
let's move on narcissistic family
members all right
okay so i use the term narcissistic but
that's not really
that's not really fair but
so
what we're going to talk about now is
like
family members who are like emotionally
manipulative
and we're gonna lay out their move set
okay so like we're gonna like put
ourselves like imagine you're like
trying to find a boss in dark souls
and like you have to understand what
their move set is in order to like see
their different attacks and like how to
dodge it
so we're almost gonna like give you a a
like a a boss fighting guide for like
the narcissistic family member so
they've got a couple of good moves so
you got to be careful okay
the first is that they're emotionally
manipulative
so the way that they get their needs met
is through
provoking particular reactions out of
other people
so that's move number one
move number two is they make you
responsible for their behavior they do
this weird like
mind-meld
psychic thing where they make you
responsible for their behavior
so a good example of this is like let's
say that
um let's say that you make a dish for
thanksgiving and your cousin makes a
dish for thanksgiving
and you make a dish that's better than
your cousin's and your cousin notices
that and they feel hurt
and so then your cousin is like okay
fine if no one wants to eat my dish
i i'll just eat it all
because i don't want it to go to waste
and they're like sacrificing themselves
by eating this crappy dish that they've
made and they like
they they like go and they buy
across from the grocery store and then
they start lugging it around okay
you guys get what i'm saying let there
that like they make you responsible for
their actions and then everyone feels
bad
right so they like
and then like suddenly
their choice
to eat crappy food
is like somehow your fault it's like no
they don't have to eat their crappy food
they can eat the good food that you made
but they're somehow like making you
responsible for their stupid choice
right and so that it's it's martyrdom so
they like look they like go find this
cross somewhere and they start lugging
it around
so other examples of this are people who
like will go on like hunger strikes
right
so you see this a lot like this was like
acting out kind of behaviors where you
know like if you say something like if
you point out let's say let's use our
earlier example of unhealthy traditions
that you challenge
right and then like your dad gets
offended because you point out that he
doesn't do anything whereas your mom
works a lot and then he gets hurt
so then what he does is like you know
what
if you don't feel like i'm like doing it
i don't have to eat any of the food i'll
just get mcdonald's
you guys can cook whatever and i won't
touch it because i'm not helping making
it right so you don't want me to eat it
right because you think that's unfair
and i'm taking advantage of your mother
i'm just going to order takeout
then you guys can have this luxurious
meal and i'll make myself a sandwich
i'll eat a bowl of cereal
right you guys know what i mean so they
like they somehow like they they like
make you responsible
for
their stupid behavior
so in the most extreme situations
usually this doesn't happen at
thanksgiving but another example of this
is if you don't break if you break up
with me if you leave me i'mma kill
myself
and it's gonna be your fault
i'm gonna commit suicide if you ever
leave me
right so it's like you making like it's
very emotionally manipulative
so it's holding you responsible for
their behavior now why does this work so
much in family situations
it's because in family situations
there's going to be one weak link
okay so in the in an individual
relationship like let's say you're in a
controlling relationship where someone
is holding you emotionally hostage
and they say if you break up with me
i'm going to kill myself
all you really have to do i'm not saying
that that situation is easy but all you
really have to do is like you have to
make the decision to hold the boundary
you just have to break up with them and
then you're out right you just have to
get one person to hold the line it's 1v1
the problem with families is that you
have to get a bunch of people to hold
the line
so if like if your dad is like oh i'm
just gonna eat
a sandwich that's fine i won't touch the
turkey i won't touch the pie i won't
touch the stuffing i won't touch the
salad
then what's gonna happen is if you're
okay with that you're like okay so like
i made it it's there for you to eat so
that's the right move right so we'll get
to that in a second you say like it's
right here i made enough for you if you
don't want it we can throw it away at
the end of the night it's your choice
right just give it right back to them
like be like okay like look dad whatever
you want to do if you feel more
comfortable eating like a bowl of cereal
when we've made this food that's totally
fine we can pack it up for leftovers
donate donate to the homeless or we can
throw it away like whatever you prefer
right so you like empower them so this
is the the counter move to them making
you responsible for their behavior
you push it back you say no no i'm not
responsible for your behavior you're
responsible for your behavior you push
that responsibility back over there
say whatever you want dad whatever makes
you happy if that makes you more
comfortable remember do your dharma
well you're like dad i'm here to make
you happy so i made this for you because
you know
it's available but if you don't feel
comfortable eating it or you feel it's
unfair like i'm okay with that too i'll
make sure it doesn't go to waste
and then what is he supposed to say like
man
but that's hard to do as one person
because someone there is gonna do what
chat
you say that and then what does mom say
what does brother say
what do they say huh
yeah don't do oh don't do that no no no
no honey like no please eat the food
please eat the food please please we
made it with so much love please
oh
i know that you're acting like a little
[ __ ] but if i'm extra nice to you and i
i turn into a doormat would that make
you feel better
does your ego need some stroking do you
need do you need us to know how much we
love you and how much we care about you
did little baby have a boo-boo for his
ego or not poor with the baby don't eat
the sandwich with the baby
oh
not for the baby i love you so much with
the baby
please eat the food
please don't make me don't hurt my mom
right that's what happens
no boundary setting one person caves
there's a problem with families one
person's gonna cave
and this is why the narcissistic person
gets to where they are
because this behavior gets tolerated
over time
right because like someone is going to
cave
because then what they'll start to do if
you're not careful is they'll start to
escalate
you know like they're like okay i'ma eat
cereal and then y'all are like
okay bro you do you
and they're like hey that didn't work
so then they're like i'm not hungry i'm
not gonna eat at all
and they're like
and then like oh my god so what they do
is they like they like they're trying to
break the line right and they're gonna
start escalating
and they start to get really upset
and then if no one's like oh no no no
please eat please eat please eat
if no one does that then they're like
they're not gonna say screw you because
they know they're in the wrong that's
what's so hard about this is like this
is a grave that they've dug for
themselves and they're jumping into it
and they're like whining when no one is
letting them like helping them out
even though like they can climb out on
their own it's like a one-foot grave in
their state like you just stand up and
step out it's like one step but they're
like no
right
and so they can try to escalate and you
have to be careful because generally
speaking like the family will crack at
some point
and so this is also where you see the
enablers
mantra
okay so if you want to understand who is
enabling within your family it is this
phrase
that's just how they are
you know uncle billy
he just likes fondling little boys
that's just how he is
you know boys will be boys
[Laughter]
that's just little that that's just how
they are
so that is the the response of an
enabler
right
seriously that's just how you know how
dad is
you know he's not gonna eat unless we do
this
and it's like think about that statement
for a second
you are now responsible
for their eating like how the hell does
that work
like unless you do particular things
like your dad isn't gonna eat
like what the hell
you guys get that that's absurd but like
when you have an emotionally
manipulative person in the family
that's what they do
they like train other people to be
responsible for their crappy behavior
right and so then it's like it's sort of
like well if i'm not going to eat it's
your fault
if you were nicer to me if you hadn't
brought up all this stuff and made me
feel bad
then you wouldn't have to deal with this
but now you have to deal with this so
what are you gonna do about it
yeah yeah and i'm gonna escalate if you
don't like make my emotional needs met
like
i'm gonna i'm gonna hurt you because you
hurt me
so this is the other thing that they do
so this is the like now like we've done
a couple of move sets how to counter
them so now we have to understand like
generally speaking what's going on with
this boss
so what's going on is that they have
emotional needs that need to be met
and unfortunately through conditioning
or upbringing or whatever
they have learned this is the way i get
my emotional needs met
okay
so they feel like so now now this is
where like we have to tie in the other
two examples if something happens in the
holidays that makes them feel hurt
they're going to engage in behaviors
that cause other people to shower them
with love
do you guys get that so like if i feel
hurt i can't process that on my own so
i'm gonna escalate and people are gonna
be like oh poor baby
oh little baby
oh i'm so sorry and then i feel that
love so this is why these people are so
freaking frustrating to deal with
because they artificially create
situations
that cause people to react and give them
the
emotional support that they need for an
unrelated problem
so they can't say
hey
i felt
shame ashamed when my son started
helping out in the kitchen
and like it made me realize oh man like
i've actually been kind of a [ __ ]
dad for like 10 years because i never
help out at thanksgiving there's a lot
of shame that comes up and comes with
that and that's really hard for me to
process
because now i feel bad about myself
the healthy thing to do
is to like go to people and say like hey
i feel like kind of ashamed that i
haven't helped out right because if you
say that
like i never realized that like i should
be helping out and like now i kind of
feel like a dumb ass if you go to your
family and you say that like what is
your family going to do they're going to
be like no it's totally fine
and then like they'll like one or two
things will happen so you got to watch
out because there's an enabler move and
then there's like a disabled move the
enabler move is don't worry about it
honey it's okay you don't have to feel
that way go sit down on the couch that's
the enabler move
the disabler move is cool
let can you help us out
because then it's like you don't have to
feel that way anymore and you fix the
behaviors you got to be very careful
because that's sort of like that's sort
of like the the end of the boss fight
where you have to like hit one button
and if you if you hit the button right
the boss is defeated but if you miss
that window they get like 30 of their
health back and they're like back to
square one
you got to watch out right so that's
that that's in the wiki at the bottom
it's like the final phase of the boss
fight you have to do this mechanic which
if you don't know about it's gonna wipe
your raid
okay
so you gotta gotta be careful about that
but that's what you should do you should
just like articulate your feelings about
this problem but like some people who
are emotionally manipulative and it's
not their fault really
because the reason they learned to do
this is because people did this [ __ ]
with them
right like your grandparents are like
very manipulative and that's how they
learned it that's how they learned how
to get their emotional needs met
and so this is where the the you know
picking up your cross comes from because
if they feel hurt
and they want to feel loved they'll
create these other artificial situations
which drive people insane
like it drives the family like
absolutely insane because everyone knows
subconsciously that this has nothing to
do with like you know the parent like oh
like you didn't get your tires rotated i
asked you to get your tires rotated
i can't believe you didn't get your
tires rotated it's so disrespectful
don't you understand that your mom and i
could die in that car if you didn't get
your tires rotated they just like unload
on the sun because the sun is like
helping out in the kitchen it's like
what the hell where's this coming from
and so it's very confusing for people
but like once a narcissistic person
feels hurt they're gonna do one or two
things they're gonna lash out at you
or they're gonna guilt you into loving
them
you guys got that does that make sense
so that's the narcissistic person
so just to kind of summarize
they're emotionally manipulative
they like to play the martyr
they make you responsible for their bad
behavior
and the reason that they do so well in
families is because it's not just one
person that they have to manipulate they
just have to find one [ __ ] in the armor
right because here's the other thing
like you guys want to know like how good
this is like how good they are at this
so let's say let's go back to the hunger
strike right oh like if you don't if i
didn't help out in the kitchen i won't
eat the food
and then there's like i'm just i'll make
myself a sandwich and then everyone's
sitting at the table they're sitting
there defiant
and completely neutral
not participating in the conversation
with their bologna sandwich and everyone
else is eating like turkey and pie and
stuff like that people like hey do you
want some pie and they're like no
i didn't help make it so i don't get to
eat it right they even give you some of
that attitude
no
no i don't deserve to eat that i didn't
help make it
and then what happens is one person
cracks they don't do it right there
publicly
but after dinner everyone goes to
whatever and then mom shows up and
they're like honey please make this pie
i i ate it with love and then the parent
eats it right he eats the pie and then
it's dad and mom
in the kitchen eating pie by themselves
whereas everyone else is laughing and
having fun out there
and that's when you're screwed the worst
because then one person is there and
then like the parent is like oh at least
one person understands me at least one
person cares everyone else is so callous
everyone else is so
oh my god they're so callous i can't
believe at least i've got one person in
this family who cares about me and how
did this whole thing [ __ ] start it
started because other people were
helping in the kitchen and you weren't
and somehow you end up feeling like the
rest of the family is callous
and then what happens is the rest of the
family realizes mom snuck down a piece
of pie and then everyone in the living
room feels like [ __ ]
they're like you know at the end of the
day like how petty am i being that like
i couldn't just encourage the dude to
eat a piece of pie like how heartless am
i
that like
dad is just dad
and like i should have just gotten him
to eat a piece of pie
right you guys get that like that that
final thing is like that's when you get
ko'd
wiped in back to the bonfire boys and
girls
time to time to respawn
because it's like i can't believe
they're so callous and then everyone out
there feels like an [ __ ]
because one person has shown compassion
right and then everyone else is like
well [ __ ] we should have shown
compassion too
and then next thanksgiving what happens
next thanksgiving the boss is stronger
and your equipment is busted because you
lost that move like you know
it's like it carries over
and so like then no one throws down with
dad after that
right
it's not
oh god it's gonna happen again and then
it happens again and again and that's
when you end up with that's just how he
is
you know your dad that's just how he is
how do you guys think people get that
impression of a person because it
happens over and over and over again
so just to summarize if you're dealing
with the narcissistic parent
or family member recognize that at the
core of it they want to be loved and if
you do anything that is perceived as an
attack or they feel hurt they will they
will activate right it's like one of
these bosses that's asleep
and how do you start the boss fight you
walk over and you you like charge slash
and credit in the face and then it like
wakes up and it's like ah
and then once it activates by being like
attacked in some way and it's not even
that you're attacking it it's just like
hey this is my way of showing gratitude
i'm gonna help out in the kitchen even
though i'm a dude it's my way of showing
gratitude they're like ah that's like a
critical hit to the face for a
narcissist you guys get that
they're like oh my god like i've lost 20
percent of my health like i'm gonna
enrage now i'm gonna show you who's boss
hunger strike go hunger strike move
the silent treatment emotionally
manipulative
all of these like modes start activating
and they look for chinks in the armor
they're gonna find one person they make
you feel responsible for their behavior
and then suddenly whether oh my god can
you think about how sad this is your dad
did not eat a single bite for
thanksgiving
and it's just because you were so
egotistical i can't believe you how dare
you
he didn't eat even a single bite
i can't believe you're like this
you know how he is
how dare you ruin thanksgiving
absolutely
right
oh my god
you with your social justice like
patriarchal oh my god and your dad
didn't even abide eat a bite for
thanksgiving
so that's how they work
so how to deal with the narcissistic
parent in short okay
i feel like we should there's probably
enough for today but we'll think about
the enabler and strategies to defeat the
narcissistic parent the first thing is
to recognize what's going on okay you
just have to understand these dynamics
the other thing is that the key to
dealing with a narcissist is if you can
meet the emotional needs
then
everything comes tumbling down so all
the problems they create all the acting
out they do all of the victimhood and
stuff like that is because they're
hurting all they're looking for is love
so all you have to do is give them love
and you can do it with a boundary
right you can say like
like i know it's kind of weird but you
just have to like be nice to them
basically but don't play their game
because you don't want to reinforce
their behavior you want to give them
compassion outside of that thing
and so even if you're like playing with
your dad and like you guys do board
games and they've thrown this hissy fit
i know it's kind of weird but like even
three hours before the meal if you're
like i'm i want to be on dad's team
you know like it's gonna be like
it's gonna be like
dad and daughter versus like mom and son
let's go
good job dad like you did awesome
man this is really fantastic i like what
you've done with the place just like
show them that you love them and then
like if they feel loved then they're
kind of confused because they're like
they're feeling love and they no longer
need to pick up the cross
the other thing that you can do is like
i know it's kind of weird but if you
have a narcissist ask them for help
that's the second thing that you can do
because when you ask someone for help
you like elevate them into the role of
like a helper who's powerful right and
if they're powerful like they don't like
it's hard to play the victim
so if you're the son in that situation
i'd go over dad and i'd say hey like how
did you feel about that conversation and
he's gonna be like oh it was totally
fine like
you know like i don't have to eat the
food and you can be like dad i think it
would be really awesome if like we could
all do this together as a family will
you please come and like at least help
out a little bit
just ask them for help and then like
disarms the whole damn thing they're not
gonna say like no because what does that
make and that makes them the [ __ ] do
you guys get their whole entire thing is
to make you the [ __ ] and them the
victim
but if you create a situation where you
allow them to be the hero
instead of the [ __ ] they're going to
take it in a heartbeat
you guys get that
so ask them for help
and give them like compassion
and that's how you do it
it's hard but it's actually not
you know
someone's asking isn't this just
manipulation though
i don't know
i'd call it education
right because i think this is the key
thing like manipulation i think is about
an uh an unhealthy end
what's the goal of all of this
information
it's to create harmony during the
holidays
right and once we once we find a
narcissistic family member like what's
my answer about what you should do is
treat them with love and then ask for
their help
like
you could call that manipulation i guess
it's just playing the game on their
level let's call it back
right but do it like like act in
accordance with your dharma that's why
like these techniques you know a blade a
sword is neither good nor evil it's what
you use it for
right so like i know it's kind of weird
but one of my supervisors
once realized that i was like very good
at this kind of stuff
and so
she
in in her final feedback from me she was
like you did a great job working with me
these past three months i have one one
piece of feedback for you or one thing
that you should do going forward and i
said what is that she's like use your
power for good instead of evil that was
literally
the feedback that i got from like a 55
year old or 50 year old psychiatrist
she was like use your power for good not
evil i was like all right
i will do that
if you tell me to fine
right
and so i think it's just a technique the
question is what are you using it for
i'm not suggesting that you use these
techniques to start a crypto coin and
manipulate people into investing
i'm not suggesting you use these
techniques to create a monetization
structure for a video game
i'm suggesting that you use these
techniques to create more harmony and
peace within your family structure over
the holidays so that you can survive
your holidays if you need to you can set
healthy boundaries with your parents so
that you retain your own sanity and you
educate them and like help them
understand like how to be a functioning
family unit
right that's why we're doing it
but do you call it manipulation yes and
i think the other big problem about that
term if we think about it is this goes
back to like why we're not taught this
stuff in the first place
the fact that like interpersonal skills
gets labeled as manipulation
is like absolutely insane the only
people who practice this stuff are con
artists
like that's the whole problem
is that everyone should learn this stuff
it's it's interpersonal relationships
right so like even as a psychiatrist
like i do this stuff with my patients
but it's not like to you know be
nefarious with them it's like holding
healthy boundaries
so for example
if i have a patient who's chronically
late for appointments they show up 20
minutes late i still stop on time
because i have another patient or even
if i don't have another patient i still
stop on time
because it's like when they're like you
know
like is that manipulating it's like
shaping behavior absolutely because i've
seen the opposite which is that when you
let your patients show up late they're
going to show up late if there's no cost
to them they're going to show up late
so this is kind of bizarre so at one
point in my practice
of the people in my of my patient panel
was free i didn't charge him a penny
okay
and guess who never showed up
what do you guys think like my
my um you know show up rate was
for
people who paid to see me versus people
who got it for free
people who pay show up absolutely hey
wyvern good to see you man
right so i had something like a 95
attendance rate for my paying clients
maybe even higher and something like an
80 attendance rate for my free clients
sure so so stoinky goyle is saying i'm
chronically late because of adhd that's
totally fine i had patience with adhd
too
and they actually tended to be pretty
good about it
because like they like if you value it
like
it works pretty well and that's where as
a psychiatrist you've got to be
understanding right so if someone like
skips to session like if someone is
usually attending and then skips two
sessions and it turns out that they're
depressed like you have to be
compassionate towards that i'm not
saying that i'm firing people from my
practice left and right but setting good
boundaries helps them
so like creating a situation which an
adhd patient
that like sort of helps them deal with
their adhd and also like doesn't let
their adhd run wild
is like really important it's actually
therapeutic for them to try to hold some
kind of limits so sometimes with my adhd
patients i would even do things like
okay so
you have a 4 pm appointment and i
actually have an hour long break so like
if i know that i've got an adhd patient
who sometimes runs late and stuff i'll
do things like send them a reminder at
three o'clock and be like hey you're
going to make it for your 4 p.m
and they'll even say like oh i'm running
late and i'll be like okay 4 15. no
biggie let's i'll push my next i'll hold
the slot until 5 15. so you should
absolutely accommodate that's the tricky
thing about you know being a
psychiatrist is that you have patients
who fundamentally are going to have
challenges with like showing up on time
either they'll be depressed
they'll be high
you know they'll have adhd
they'll be anxious
so there are all kinds of things oh like
i've had like i had a patient who had an
addiction who was like very anxious
and they were like i relapsed and i was
terrified to tell you so like even
though i got sober like i couldn't like
i was terrified of how you'd respond so
they like didn't show up to the
appointment we like talked about it next
week right
it's sort of like bro like i get that
you're terrified and like you know i
want to have compassion for that but
also like i deserve better
right like i spent a week worrying about
you i didn't know where you were you
weren't answering my texts like that's
not fair to me
and so i know it sounds kind of weird
but like that actually is very healthy
it's like respecting this person and
saying hey you actually have agency you
have responsibility you have an impact
in the world i understand you have
anxiety but like there are other people
out there that could be affected by that
right and i think that's where i got the
best outcomes which is like not like oh
my poor baby
you have adhd that means you're
completely incapable of anything
and everything is forgivable and
acceptable it's like dude i i forgive
you for it
but like try to do better next time
because i'm a person
you know and i think that's when like
that's when my patients do really well
because when you like it's kind of
interesting but in psychiatry what's
happening is we're
disempowering people by making excuses
for them
so like it goes back to you know
something that i've heard several times
which is like it's not your fault but
you're responsible
and i think that's like the best
attitude
for all my patients in order for them to
do well i have to help them understand
that they have power over the illness
and having power over their illness in
turn means having responsibility for
their illness
so if you're like manic
so i once had a patient who
took all their was like adherent with
bipolar treatment
went to an international conference to
present a paper
during their period of jet lag their
sleep got messed up and they became
manic
i don't blame them an iota for that
because
kind of not their fault right like they
didn't realize that they didn't think
about it i didn't think about it they
kind of became manic because their sleep
got messed up
totally fine
next time around though it is their
fault right so next time around hey i've
got an international conference okay
let's think about this
maybe you should go a day early so you
can like adjust to your sleep schedule
maybe what i need to do is prescribe you
some sleep medicine so it helps you get
on your circadian rhythm and doesn't
trigger your mania it is our
responsibility
yeah they should take melatonin
absolutely
oh walls of corn irvine yalum talks
about this in this relational way to
conduct therapy sounds like we have a
real student
of the psychological sciences in chat
ah
this is a great question okay dr k in
case someone me has these manipulative
actions if you're the one doing the
manipulating how do we get better
fantastic question
so
if you are the one
who is the narcissistic family member
the main thing to understand is watch
what you're
why you're doing what you're doing
so like when you start manipulating
people
right like understand
what you're trying to get out of it
what's your end goal and just pay
attention to that process that's the
first thing
is to recognize that like you know if
for example you feel ashamed
so another good example that i'll give
you guys is i once had a patient
who
so two twin sisters fraternal twins okay
so not monozygotic so not like
genetically identical
they're around 25 years old one of the
twins is my patient
so
they're both like pretty much the same
through college and then after college
one twin decides to get healthy
so she loses like 10 or 15 pounds like
starts to get super fit starts to take
care of herself
my patient
lets herself go
so over the course of three years like
every you know because they they like
look alike right because they're twins
and then over like the next three years
like one of them is gaining weight and
one of them is losing weight
and boy does that create problems
because it's sort of like
you know like so they they go to
thanksgiving and then one you know their
cousins and stuff will be like oh you
look great like what are you doing like
you look like you're super in shape to
her sister they just don't say anything
to her right they don't say like hey
you're fat like she's not actually fat
but
and so then like my patient is like
super
you know does like all these like weird
toxic things and it turns out like i
didn't even realize
but she's got all these other problems
like in her workplace and in her
relationships and and things like that
with her parents
and the more we kind of talk about it
she's like oh my parents are so mean to
me my parents are so mean to me they
like this sister so much they like the
sister they play favorites a lot that
was her chief complaint when she came in
the more we talk about it the more we're
like no they don't actually play play
favorites it's just you feel
like less worthy than your sister so
what happens is there's a cognitive bias
in her mind that like amplifies any kind
of insult
right so it's not even an insult it's
just like oh like she'll come in after
thanksgiving she'll say my family
ignores me
and it's not that they actually ignore
her it's just like in that moment the
sister sees oh they're complimenting my
sister on her weight loss and they're
not saying anything to me therefore i
feel ignored therefore i'm gonna go
complain to my psychiatrist that i am
ignored
and so it's great i mean we worked on it
for a while and we kind of challenged
that right like why do you feel that way
where does that come from what happens
and the more that we tunnel down into it
i would ask her this question when do
you feel ignored so this kind of goes
back to like what do you do about it you
notice the feelings as they arise don't
worry about fixing it or stopping the
manipulative behavior don't worry about
that yet
you have to understand where it arises
and the more that we understand where it
arises that's when we uncovered oh like
i felt it because my you know they
complimented my sister
and then how then i'd ask like how do
you feel about them complimenting your
sister well like she deserves it and i'd
be like i'm confused and i'd be like
what do you mean she deserves it well
she's like 30 pounds lighter than i am
i'm like okay well tell me about that
and so then we uncovered this story
about how like her sister has been like
taking care of herself and then she in
in turn feels ashamed right so then what
she does is she since she feels ashamed
she starts acting out and manipulating
people into helping her feel better
so she'll start like throwing tantrums
and stuff like that
she'll start like crying and like like
other things like very publicly but
trying to hold it in and then when she
starts crying like people like give her
attention
and that that kind of creates conflict
because like her sister is like you know
what are you doing
and so if you're the person who is doing
the manipulation understand
that you have particular needs that need
to be met
and for whatever reason the way that you
were taught or conditioned to have those
needs needs met is by expressing these
like
hyperbolic things for lack of a better
turn
turn so you'll kind of create conflict
or have like attention seeking behavior
another good example of this is
something called parasuicidal gestures
so like your parasital gesture is like a
good example of this so there's a lot of
research into why men kill themselves
more often than women so women attempt
suicide more men kill themselves way
more than women so it's like four to one
ratio of completed suicides for for
every one woman who kills herself four
men kill themselves but for every one
man who commits suicide tries to commit
suicide it's arguable that maybe four
women attempt suicide
so then when you kind of tunnel down
into it what you see is that there's a
lot of parasuicidal gestures
so this is where like
uh
i mean it's not always this way but
women for example you prefer overdoses
men like prefer firearms so what what
will happen is a woman will say like
okay so they'll take a bunch of pills
and they'll text someone they'll say
like i'm saying goodbye
and then the person will be like
what do you mean you're saying goodbye
you're freaking me out she's like don't
worry you'll understand soon they'll be
like super like vague about it this is a
pair of suicidal gestures it doesn't
have to be a woman
and so they'll like do something that is
suicidal but like have a high visibility
of it they'll tell let the whole world
know goodbye world i'll see you tomorrow
or i'll never see you again i hope the
rest of you have wonderful lives
and then like people will like rescue
them right so the attempt is low
lethality high visibility
so if you talk to those people why are
they doing that it's because they
they're trying to get an emotional need
met and sometimes people who just aren't
taught how to articulate their feelings
the only way they've learned because
when they were 15 or 16
they said
i want to kill myself and then people
started paying attention
right it's not their fault it's like
this is a 15 year old who's been ignored
for the last five years
abused and they say like i want to kill
myself because that's actually how they
feel they don't want to live this life
anymore and then suddenly everyone comes
swooping in
and suddenly we care
right like suddenly we care if you're
suicidal and that's the lesson that they
learn
is the only time people care is if
you're suicidal and that's how you get
pair of suicidal gestures
right and then we get that sort of like
even in relationships oh if you leave me
i'm going to kill myself because that's
how that person has learned that's how
society and people have taught
this person how you can get your needs
met
how can you guarantee that this person
won't abandon you because what you're
really afraid of is being left alone
you're afraid of abandonment well i can
get him to stay if i tell him i'm gonna
kill myself
hello
yeah who is it
hi what's up
mom
mom and you are leaving to the grocery
store
okay i don't want to go so they're gonna
leave me
behind okay you want to stay here with
me
okay
hi
hi ted
hello
bye bye okay evie you can say can you
play for a little bit by their serve
and then i'll come be with you in a
little bit okay love you
okay
thanks daryl
i love my kids
what can i say
um i gotta scroll all the way down
so apparently
my wife and older daughter are going to
the grocery store
the younger one and i are going to hang
out
all right
um
yeah i just had a brain fart so people
are gonna get their emotional needs met
however they want to
or however they need to and if you're
that kind of person you know that's okay
just like
understand it starts with understanding
how what the need is that needs to be
met
and um
yeah i don't i'm sure there's some
relation to that but
i think uh
yeah i'm just thinking about my children
now so i forgot what i was talking about
and right back to suicide
i can't think about suicide now
okay let's meditate and then we'll
figure out who to raid how does that
sound
oh my god i don't actually need to wear
this
i don't know why i've had that on the
whole time
okay
so we're gonna teach you the how to
survive
holidays meditation
i gotta just make that up real quick
let's think about this
let me think let me think
okay
so we're gonna do a meditation that
involves
[Music]
okay we're gonna do some
abdominal meditation
we'll teach you guys something else on
friday okay so we're gonna do two chakra
meditations
one is going to be like a processing
your emotions in the moment while you're
interacting with family members
and the second is going to be a
meditation that's geared towards
improving interpersonal relationships
okay
so this is going to be a
manipura chakra meditation
there we go
so that involves so first thing that
we're going to do is sit up
okay so we're going to sit up straight
try not to
swivel and then
oh no
oh no chat
we're swiveling
okay
so what manipura
m-a-n-i-p-u-r-a so i want y'all to sit
up straight and close your eyes okay
this is gonna be a little bit more of a
guided meditation
no chatting chat
eyes closed
okay so we're gonna put ourselves
in the situation of your at
your home for the holidays
and the stuff that pisses you off is
pissing you off
okay whatever that may be
it may be that your cousins are making
fun of you
it may be that one of your parents is
throwing a temper tantrum
it may be that your grandmother is
asking you when you're going to get
married
because you're indian
and all your life you've been told no
dating no dating no dating and then
suddenly it's when are you getting
married and having kids why aren't you
married yet
no girlfriend
why aren't you married
your cousin in india is married
so whatever it is
whatever is going on
that pisses you off
so try to think about that recall that
feeling
what do they say that annoys you
maybe you've got a career outside of
medicine why don't you be doctor doctor
is good
it is noble profession but the reason we
value is because of the financial
we all call it our noble profession but
we care about the money
right
maybe it's politics
whatever it is just call up recall that
memory prepare mentally in your mind for
that situation
and now what we're going to do is take a
deep breath in and we're going to expand
our belly out
so we're gonna take that cool air and
put it all the way down into our belly
button and then as we breathe out
we're gonna breathe out that heat and
that tension
so feel that toxicity that swirls up
inside you in your in your chest in your
throat
and how it creates tightness
anger sweatiness
and as we breathe in expand the throat
expand the chest
expand the belly
and then let it all relax
and as you let it relax the recoil
happens in your belly the recoil happens
in your intercostal muscles or chest
your throat relax and you feel that hot
air come out
that is the tension and the negativity
so again take a deep breath in
feel the throat expand chest expand
abdomen expand
and as you exhale
notice the transience of things
you can continue to breathe
expanding the throat expanding the chest
expanding the abdomen
and feel that cool air
envelop the inside of your body
and as you relax
notice the heat and the tension leave
that the tightness in your chest and the
tightness in your throat is relaxing
and take for a moment
notice for a moment
that all breaths come to an end
that each inhalation stops and becomes
exhalation
and that each
exhalation stops and becomes inhalation
that any given sensation of opening of
your throat
or relaxing of your throat
of tightening in the chest or expanding
the chest
of the belly moving out or in
all of these things are transient
and now say to yourself this too shall
pass
this too shall pass
that all things that happen with your
family will come to a close
that despite the whirlwind that is your
family's holiday situation
despite all the tensions the joys the
frustrations the comparisons the
embarrassments
all of those feelings are transient
that if you need to you can take a dip
into this place within yourself
this too shall pass
you can continue the practice
expanding the throat
expanding the chest
expanding the abdomen
or you can let your breathing
return to normal
with a full
inhalation in that moment repeat to
yourself this shall pass
and as you expel all of the air out
repeat to yourself
this shall pass
in the spaces between inhalation and
exhalation find your stillness
and in that way
with all the ups and all the downs
in the in between spaces you shall also
find your stillness
we'll practice for about another minute
now let your eyes remain closed
wiggle your toes wiggle your fingers
shrug your shoulders a little bit
stretch your neck
and let yourself start to return back to
the world
and notice for a moment that the
holidays may not be the best time
that there may be all of these dynamics
going on that they may be challenging
for you to deal with
and have some compassion for yourself
they don't need to be fixed right away
you will survive whatever comes you will
enjoy whatever you can
in what comes next
and have some compassion for your family
that despite all the tension despite all
the difficulty
it isn't necessarily their fault
that things are the way that they are it
isn't your fault that things are the way
they are
and yet in the smallest way possible
try to take some responsibility
what can you change what can you affect
and as best as you can have faith in
your family
that if you start to treat them with
compassion
and start to articulate what is
happening
as you raise awareness
that they'll start to move in the right
direction as well
it's fine to be skeptical
but try to cultivate within yourself a
tiny amount of hope
because at the end of the day your
family are probably decent people
who are not always bad
so you can count on them too
it may just take a little bit of time
with that go ahead and come back
and have a happy thanksgiving chat